# BONE-FRACTURE-CLASSIFICATION-USING-MACHINE-LEARNING
Bone fracture is a common problem even in most developed countries and therefore the number of bone fractures is increasing rapidly. A bone fracture can occur because of any easy accident or pressure. So, quick and accurate diagnoses are often crucial to the success of any prescribed treatment. Manual interpretation of the x-rays can sometimes make it difficult to determine whether it is fractured or not. These x-rays provide a clear picture of the damage, but the primary problem is that some doctors fail to spot the minor fractures that could later cause significant harm to the patient. 
The field of life science and its reliance on technology are expanding daily. Alternative tools and computer-assisted medicine have significantly decreased the time-consuming and laborious manual diagnosis processes. The technique uses XRAYS to create a partial XRAY image of the fractured area, which is then manually reviewed by the doctors to determine the type and location of the fracture. Identification of faults/cracks through computer-based techniques is a growing trend these days. There are numerous methods for spotting these fractures, and this is by various Al tools that used machine learning and deep learning methods.
The XRAY images are fed into a neural network model that has been trained on a sizable training dataset corresponding to various sorts of fractures. After this training, the user has to upload an image which needs to be classified as fractured or not and the classified image results are viewed by user. Machine Learning is used to create a software system that can import the image to be identified and supply the model with abstract ideas about the fracture. The main objective is to apply machine learning to accurately identify bone fractures in x-ray images and to classify the kind of bone fracture using a trained machine learning model that has been built on a collection of x-ray data.

